We live in the age of ubiquitous cloud computing. It offers agility, lower cost, and better access to resources on a global scale. So how did we get here?

The social benefits of cloud-based data are still being discovered as we continue to explore how our new technological era is evolving. As more and more complex applications are no longer confined to one physical location, this growth is becoming exponential. In our lifetime, we have seen the progression from floppy disc to zip drives, from CDs (and data DVDs) to USB storage drives and beyond. While Millennials may believe that the cloud belongs to their generation, the roots of non-local computing can be traced back to the early 1950s.By the 1990s, huge numbers of personal computers were being connected as the technology became more affordable. Until finally, in 1999, Salesforce became the first company to offer applications over the internet, heralding the arrival of Software as a Service.Three years later, the industry grew massively with video, music and other media being hosted and delivered online.he creation of UX design meant that lay people were gaining access to data previously reserved for programmers and the code literates.By the mid 1990s, the term “the cloud” was being used to discuss this new digital sphere. Soon Google and Microsoft were in an arms race to build more and more market share of this virtual environment.

Suddenly, the cloud was everywhere and the expansion of PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service), SaaS, and IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service) became a brand new industry with its offshoot, the cyber-security enterprise.

Everyone was accessing the cloud—for entertainment, healthcare, finance and government— and the gold rush to join this new sector was happening at an accelerated rate. The cloud was creating a cultural shift never seen before in the history of humanity. Great things were coming from the humblest of places as the barriers of knowledge were removed and access to information became more common and easy. Small startups were changing the world. Wealth was being created in remote locations and creativity and innovation became the domain of the individual.

On August 25, 2006, Amazon Web Services launched Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), enabling people to rent virtual computers and use their own programs and applications online; this was quickly followed by Google Docs Services. One year later, binge-watching became a thing when a small start up called Netflix launched its video streaming website.IBM jumped on the bandwagon with SmartCloud and Apple launched iCloud. Around the same time, Oracle released its own Cloud.
